- A firewall is a security measure against unauthorized connection attempts from external networks.
- The intrusion detection system (`IDS`) and intrusion prevention system (`IPS`) are also software-based components. `IDS` scans the network for potential attacks, analyzes them, and reports any detected attacks. `IPS` complements `IDS` by taking specific defensive measures if a potential attack should have been detected.
- #### Determine Firewalls and Their Rules
   We already know that when a port is shown as filtered, it can have several reasons. In most cases, firewalls have certain rules set to handle specific connections. The packets can either be `dropped`, or `rejected`. The `dropped` packets are ignored, and no response is returned from the host.
   This is different for `rejected` packets that are returned with an `RST` flag. These packets contain different types of ICMP error codes or contain nothing at all.
   Such errors can be:
   - Net Unreachable
   - Net Prohibited
   - Host Unreachable
   - Host Prohibited
   - Port Unreachable
   - Proto Unreachable
   
   Nmap's TCP ACK scan (`-sA`) method is much harder to filter for firewalls and IDS/IPS systems than regular SYN (`-sS`) or Connect scans (`sT`) because they only send a TCP packet with only the `ACK` flag. When a port is closed or open, the host must respond with an `RST` flag.
## Detect IDS/IPS
Unlike firewalls and their rules, the detection of IDS/IPS systems is much more difficult because these are passive traffic monitoring systems.One method to determine whether such `IPS system` is present in the target network is to scan from a single host (`VPS`). If at any time this host is blocked and has no access to the target network, we know that the administrator has taken some security measures. Accordingly, we can continue our penetration test with another `VPS`.

## Decoys
There are cases in which administrators block specific subnets from different regions in principle. This prevents any access to the target network. Another example is when IPS should block us. For this reason, the Decoy scanning method (`-D`) is the right choice. With this method, Nmap generates various random IP addresses inserted into the IP header to disguise the origin of the packet sent. With this method, we can generate random (`RND`) a specific number (for example: `5`) of IP addresses separated by a colon (`:`). Our real IP address is then randomly placed between the generated IP addresses.

e.g.
some other parameters of nmap:
|`-O`|Performs operation system detection scan.|
|`-S`|Scans the target by using different source IP address.|

## DNS Proxying
The DNS queries are made over the `UDP port 53` previously `TCP port 53` (this is changing due to IPv6 and DNSSEC expansions. These changes cause many DNS requests to be made via TCP port 53).

